docker-pull.md, before:

# Docker Container Set Up - from Internet

If you have successfully installed [Docker](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/training-modules/blob/master/docker-install/README.md),
and have copied the files from the [flash drive](flashdrive-instructions.md)
you are now ready for the last part of set up: setting up your Docker container.   

Setting up your Docker container as described by these steps, will
provide you with all the software and packages you need for this workshop.

1. Pull the appropriate image using command line.

- In *Mac*, search for and open `Terminal`.
- In *Windows*, search for and open `Command Prompt`.

  In your respective command line interface, copy and paste the following:
```
docker pull ccdl/training_rnaseq:2019-czi
```

2. Run the container. Change the `<PASSWORD>` in the line below to whatever you'd
  like.
```
docker run -e PASSWORD=<PASSWORD> -p 8787:8787 ccdl/training_rnaseq:2019-czi
```

3. Open `Kitematic` - you should see an image running. Docker assigns a random 
name to your container. In the example below: "stoic_lamport".

![](screenshots/container_running.png)

4. `Settings` > `Volumes` > Set local folder to `training-modules` that was
transferred from the flash drive, using the `CHANGE` button.
![Folder](screenshots/all-02-volume.png)

*For Windows*: After you set `Volumes` you will may see a message in the
lower right corner of your screen that asks if you would like to 'Share it'
with Docker.
Click the `Share it` button; it will ask for your credentials:  
![Folder](screenshots/docker_permission_windows.png)  
Enter your password and click `OK`.

5. Navigate to RStudio window.

  - In a *Windows* or *Mac* in Kitematic, go to the `Settings` > `Hostname/Ports`
    tab and click on the blue lettering.
![Folder](screenshots/all-01-network.png)

  - Alternatively, for a *Mac*, you can navigate to the RStudio window by typing
    `localhost:8787` in your web browser

6. Log into `RStudio`. The username will be 'rstudio' and the password will be
whatever you selected above (can also be accessed from the `Settings` >
`General` panel).

7. You should see a `kitematic/` folder in your `RStudio` Files panel. Click on
it.

8. To test that everything is set up, copy and paste the follow command in the
R Studio `Console` window.

```
source("kitematic/ready_script.R")
```

![Ready](screenshots/ready_command.png)

9. Click `Enter`. You should receive an indication that you are successfully set
up. Keep this indicator handy for the instructors and helpers as they come around
to check.

### If Kitematic doesn't work:

If all else fails and Kitematic is not working for you, go to your `Terminal` or
`Command Prompt` (for Mac or Windows respectively) and type in the following, but
replace <PATH_TO_TRAINING_FOLDERS> with the absolute path to
`training-modules` that was transferred from the flash drive.
```
docker run -it --rm --mount type=volume,dst=/home/rstudio/kitematic,volume-driver=local,volume-opt=type=none,volume-opt=o=bind,volume-opt=device=<PATH_TO_TRAINING_FOLDERS> -e PASSWORD=<PASSWORD> -p 8787:8787 ccdl/training_rnaseq:2019-czi
```
After starting your container this way, you can get to the RStudio window in
a similar way as described above:
- In Mac, type: `localhost:8787` in your web browser.
- In Windows, go to `Command Prompt`, type: `ipconfig` and click enter.
  Find the number that corresponds to the `Virtual Box Host Network` and the
  `IPv4 Address`. Copy and paste it.
  Put that number and `:8787` at the end of it in your browser.

Resume with steps 6 - 9.

Commit message:

Add note about refreshing container list.

docker-pull.md, after:

# Docker Container Set Up - from Internet

If you have successfully installed [Docker](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/training-modules/blob/master/docker-install/README.md),
and have copied the files from the [flash drive](flashdrive-instructions.md)
you are now ready for the last part of set up: setting up your Docker container.   

Setting up your Docker container as described by these steps, will
provide you with all the software and packages you need for this workshop.

1. Pull the appropriate image using command line.

- In *Mac*, search for and open `Terminal`.
- In *Windows*, search for and open `Command Prompt`.

  In your respective command line interface, copy and paste the following:
```
docker pull ccdl/training_rnaseq:2019-czi
```

2. Run the container. Change the `<PASSWORD>` in the line below to whatever you'd
  like.
```
docker run -e PASSWORD=<PASSWORD> -p 8787:8787 ccdl/training_rnaseq:2019-czi
```

3. Open `Kitematic` - you should see an image running. Docker assigns a random
name to your container. In the example below: "stoic_lamport".
If you don't see a container running, try quitting `Kitematic` and then opening it
up again, or going to `View` > `Refresh Container List`.

![](screenshots/container_running.png)

4. `Settings` > `Volumes` > Set local folder to `training-modules` that was
transferred from the flash drive, using the `CHANGE` button.
![Folder](screenshots/all-02-volume.png)

*For Windows*: After you set `Volumes` you will may see a message in the
lower right corner of your screen that asks if you would like to 'Share it'
with Docker.
Click the `Share it` button; it will ask for your credentials:  
![Folder](screenshots/docker_permission_windows.png)  
Enter your password and click `OK`.

5. Navigate to RStudio window.

  - In a *Windows* or *Mac* in Kitematic, go to the `Settings` > `Hostname/Ports`
    tab and click on the blue lettering.
![Folder](screenshots/all-01-network.png)

  - Alternatively, for a *Mac*, you can navigate to the RStudio window by typing
    `localhost:8787` in your web browser

6. Log into `RStudio`. The username will be 'rstudio' and the password will be
whatever you selected above (can also be accessed from the `Settings` >
`General` panel).

7. You should see a `kitematic/` folder in your `RStudio` Files panel. Click on
it.

8. To test that everything is set up, copy and paste the follow command in the
R Studio `Console` window.

```
source("kitematic/ready_script.R")
```

![Ready](screenshots/ready_command.png)

9. Click `Enter`. You should receive an indication that you are successfully set
up. Keep this indicator handy for the instructors and helpers as they come around
to check.

### If Kitematic doesn't work:

If all else fails and Kitematic is not working for you, go to your `Terminal` or
`Command Prompt` (for Mac or Windows respectively) and type in the following, but
replace <PATH_TO_TRAINING_FOLDERS> with the absolute path to
`training-modules` that was transferred from the flash drive.
```
docker run -it --rm --mount type=volume,dst=/home/rstudio/kitematic,volume-driver=local,volume-opt=type=none,volume-opt=o=bind,volume-opt=device=<PATH_TO_TRAINING_FOLDERS> -e PASSWORD=<PASSWORD> -p 8787:8787 ccdl/training_rnaseq:2019-czi
```
After starting your container this way, you can get to the RStudio window in
a similar way as described above:
- In Mac, type: `localhost:8787` in your web browser.
- In Windows, go to `Command Prompt`, type: `ipconfig` and click enter.
  Find the number that corresponds to the `Virtual Box Host Network` and the
  `IPv4 Address`. Copy and paste it.
  Put that number and `:8787` at the end of it in your browser.

Resume with steps 6 - 9.
